# Initial Key Exchange

In order to establish a secure communication channel, an initial key exchange is necessary. This document outlines the protocol for performing the initial key exchange between two parties.

## Keys Involved

* **Shared Secret Key**: A symmetric key used for encrypting and decrypting messages between the two parties. This is different for each client. All servers knowing this key can communicate with the client, but singing is still required for authentication.
* **Client Key Pair**: A public/private key pair generated by the client. The private key remains on the client device, while the public key is shared with the server. This will be used to sign the authentication grant.
* **Server Key Pair**: A public/private key pair generated by the server. The private key remains on the server, while the public key is shared with the client. This will be used to sign the authentication request.

## Initial Pairing

Before the initial key exchange can take place, the client and server must be paired. This is done by scanning a QR code on the server with the client device. The QR code contains a session key and the server's address. This will be used to establish an initial secure connection between the two parties.

Next, the client will connect to the server using the session key and the server's address. The client will then send its public key to the server, encrypted with the session key. The server will respond with its public key, also encrypted with the session key. This ensures that both parties have each other's public keys, and can now communicate securely. The final shared secret key of a client is shared for each server, allowing many servers to answer authentication requests for the same client.

During the process, a randomly generated nonce will be shown to the user, who must verify that the nonce displayed on the client matches the nonce displayed on the server. This ensures that there is no man-in-the-middle attack taking place during the initial pairing.